
Chapter 1.

The "Key Technologies" section has some awkward language and, since this is presumably setting out concepts which will recur through the book, perhaps the individual items should be presented in more detail.  For example, "Cloud computing along with IoT ... has changed most of the processes in industries" -- how?  Or, "Industry 4.0 allows to simulate the change in the production line before actual change which is also called as Digital Twin" -- this is a use-case for Digital Twins, but it would be an incomplete or misleading discription if the idea is to define Digital Twins in general.  I think it would be stylistically preferable to give a broader explication of Digital Twins -- something like, a digital artifact that simulates the behaviour and/or appearance of real-world objects (and can be combined with other digital twins to create predictive or analytic simulations of real-world systems and processes) -- and then explain how this concept applies to Industry 4.0 through use-cases such as production-line simulations.  (It's worth mentioning that the concept fits into industry in numerous other ways, such as emulating supply chains, or product safety, etc.).  Or, vis-a-vis AI, "it is possible to add intelligence to machines based on certain trainings" -- again, how?  How are "machines" intelligent (as compared to NLP engines, or self-driving cars, or other contexts where there are fairly intuitive analogs between machine and human intelligence; this is less self-evident in settings like factories or manufacturing).

Other sections are more detailed, although one point I would like to have seen explored further is Industry 4.0 associated with "better work environment."  This seems to me like a very important dimension of new industrial technology and deserves more than a one-sentence summary.

In general I think this chapter should be aggressively edited to read smoothly in English, since it serves as an introduction for the book as a whole.  



Chapter 2.  

One discussion in this chapter which might benefit from further discussion is the topic of AR/VR.  Incorporating AR/VR into HCI is a multifaceted problem which leads to several further questions: what are the parameters for people actually "interacting" with AR/VR content?  How can technologies for generating AR/VR scene be streamlined?  How can existing digital models (e.g. "digital twins") be transformed into AR/VR resources?  What are the common mathematical or computational elements shared by most AR/VR systems?  It might be helpful to do a "code review" of existing AR/VR software packages and provide users with a basic overview of the current computational ecosystem in this area.  By analogy, in preparation for the Computer Vision portions of Section 5, I've studied hundreds of image-processing libraries with the goal of identifying the general trends, the commonly used support libraries, the software development and engineering norms which have emerged as "best practices" for image processing, and so forth, partly so as to articulate what is needed for synthesizing the capabilities of multiple distinct components into larger multi-featured environments.  I assume one could similarly review the predominant AR/VR libraries with similar question in mind: what are the prototypical build/compilation steps for AR/VR components?  What are the crucial mathematical structures (coordinate transforms, ray-tracing, mesh-based renderers, say, etc.) and typical libraries that provide these algorithms?  Does this ecosystem need to be optimized or updated for the AR/VR use-cases anticipated in this chapter?  What coding techniques could help researchers study or simulate applications of AR/VR in the industrial context?



Chapter 3.

The substance of the discussion in Chapter 3 starts around page 8, which begins to review extent literature related to "affective computing."  I'd argue that almost all the chapter text prior to the paragraph which mentions refs [30] and [24] are introductory and could be significantly reduced in size, since that material (as far as I can tell) mostly just introduces the themes of the chapter, such as the importance of accounting for "negative" student affect in an educational setting (including e-learning).  Reducing the space of those preliminaries would allow for lengthier discussion in the more central parts of the chapter.  For example, the references cited in the paragraphs starting on page 8 should be summarized in a little more detail.  Pointing out that, say, models' "fusion" is achieved "using Baysian network" alludes to one study's methods, but for this reference to be useful to readers the authors should give at least a brief outline: what are the network's statistical parameters?  Where in the cited papers are the behavioral and biosensor data sets described and/or quantified?  Table 2 is helpful in presenting an organized summary of multiple publications -- grouping textual summaries into shared columns is a good way to convey interrelationships between research projects -- but each paper is given only a brief summary.  It might be worthwhile to highlight at least a few of these papers for a more extended discussion.
As authors I think we need to be conscious of the distinction between giving concise summaries of other work (in the positive sense, i.e., calling attention to and encapsulating the most important points) and outlining work *too* quickly, which can easily reduce to merely observing what authors say at one remove.  For example, one can report that a particular paper deploys a distinction such as "early fusion," "late fusion," and "hybrid" (page 24) but it is not especially helpful to the current readers to be told simply that such a distinction exists; it would be better to explain the meanings of these terms and clarify what role such a distinction plays in mathematical models, analytic methods, algorithms, data models, or whatever.  This is another example where I think a lengthier review of cited papers is worthwhile (again, condensing the chapter's introductory material could leave more space for exposition later on).


Chapter 4

So as to reinforce readers' understanding of "edge" computing -- how this environment differs from both conventional cloud computing and cyber-physical systems -- it may be helpful to review the communications protocols between IoT devices, cloud services, and the cloudlet/fog/mobile-edge components discussed in section 4.2.  What are the specific metamodels for data exchanged between mobile/cyber-physical units, cloudlets (for instance), and cloud back-ends (for analysis/storage and etc.)?  Also, what are the details of cloudlets (and related edge components) as computational systems, e.g., what is the nature of languages that can run on such devices, what are their compilation models, instruction sets, operating systems, and so forth?  Could the authors expand on the enumeration of "services such as resource management, service management, real time response and security"?  In what way does Mobile Edge Computing environments "provide" resource management?  In classical systems, from a programmer's perspective, "resource management" would entail considerations such as recycling allocated memory which can no longer be accessed (which has no active handles) or which has fallen out of scope (in the sense of source-code scope blocks).  On the other hand, from a database and cloud-computing perspective, it could mean balancing memory-distribution to optimize raw-memory access to all parts of a database, or manage data duplication across multiple cloud end-points.  The authors might want to clarify to what degree "resource management" in the MEC context overlaps with these examples or related features as they might be found in non-"edge" computing.  Also, a quick observation: the items 8, 9, and 10 on pages 16-17 appear to be "subitems" of 7, so maybe they should be labeled as 7a, 7b, 7c (and indented) with the subsequent items renumbered accordingly.  Finally, it would be useful for the authors to expand on the discussion near the conclusion about "Research Opportunities in Edge AI and/or Edge Computing" -- for instance, vis-a-vis "many opportunities in data management [and] data storage mechanisms" can the authors indicate which lines of research they feel are most promising?


Chapter 5.

One preliminary observation: in the Literature Survey table I found it incongruous to see "Microsoft Visual Studio" (an IDE) listed as analogous to Seq2Seq, LSTM, ML, and so forth.  I would think the IDE would be merely the tools used to build the code, whereas the "technologies" thereby used would be the relevant ML or NLP libraries (or whatever).  I could see Visual Studio being cited if the whole project was oriented around VS plugins or employed VS as a Jupyter-like working environment, but there's no indication that's the case vis-a-vis this one project.  To a lesser extent I'd same the same thing about "Google Cloud" for item 14; at least the authors might give an extra line (or use a footnote to clarify) how cloud services in that project serve as a crucial component (and not just an implementation detail vis-a-vis how data is stored).

It might be helpful for the authors to cite specific papers when making comments at various points in the chapter about clinical or epidemiological properties of Covid-19.  Scientists' understanding of Covid-19 has evolved over time, so specific references might help future readers orient this paper against the picture of Covid-19 which had emerged at one time (a picture we can envision being refined over the next few years).   

The authors discuss generalizing to other Indian languages, but it seems as if the system has few details applicable only to Covid-19, so I imagine it could be similarly extended for use with other diseases.  Perhaps this is a possibility that could be explored or mentioned.


Chapter 6.

Figure 1 iconifies the distinction of different parts-maintenance forms as discussed in the prior text, but the two are not fully aligned: the figure excludes "Condition-based-Maintenance" and introduces "Prescriptive Maintenance."  These points might benefit from some clarification or extension.  What would be examples of "conditions" that might might trigger maintenance being warranted, apart from obvious failure?  And meanwhile, how is "Prescriptive Maintenance" different from "Predictive Maintenance"?  The chapter text itself does not seem to have any other mention of the term "Prescriptive" Maintenance in particular.  The arrows between the maintenance strategies suggest that prescriptive somehow "follows" predictive, and moreover excluding CDM might imply that CDM does not logically fit in the same progression as the other strategies.  Or am I reading too much into the use of arrows; are they more a graphic separator without an implied logical or temporal interpretation?  All of this I find a little unclear.

This chapter's exposition is fairly thorough, so I thought the "Challenges" section was incongruously short.  They mention three topics which could be subsection titles, rather than just asserting the challenges without any discussion or explication.  The section following this one could also use more author's commentary, rather than just listing a table of extant literature (though the table is interesting in itself).



Chapter 7.

When comparing ML models, it appears the Support Vector Machines' accuracy was very low, and clearly an outlier compared to the other models, which were all at least 90%; according to the authors, the SVM had only 10.5% accuracy.  This degree of discrepancy could cause some readers to want more information about the methodology in general, the size of the original (pre-split) data set and so forth.  Is there something specific about SVM which would produce results at such odds with the other 5 models?  By contrast, the crop recommendation data set had, according to the authors, something over 2000 entries; the Fertilizer recommendation, with 500 entries, showed a more balanced accuracy distribution, with SVM at 55%, and the others ranging from 50%-90%.  Why would the other models get more accurate with roughly quadruple the sample size but SVM get worse?  Both data sets, as outlined by the authors, had similar column/table structures.

Another question came to mind vis-a-vis Chapter 7 in light of my work on GIS for a chapter in Section 5.  Are the authors aware of a representation of the data sets they consulted (or similar ones) that include GIS data (at a minimum, Latitude/Longitude coordinates)?  I imagine it would be relatively straightforward to map agrecultural fields to lat/lon boundaries, so we could see visually the geographic distribution of different crops (de facto and/or as recommended by an ML-powered engine).  Moreover, such "agri map" data could be cross-referenced with other GIS data sets, such as acquifer/water supply to analyze factors such as the drought impact on food supplies.  Anyhow, one theme of Section 5 will be the use of GIS databases as cross-references bridging multiple data models which share, at the least, GIS coordinate data.  The authors' data in Chapter 7 seems like an interesting case in point: given the column-tuples for the two data sets the authors address, one could encapsulate each emtry into an object which via GIS coordinates could be iconified on a map, and then  agricultural software could employ the map as a front-end which, via user interaction, would lead to application-specific windows presenting the overall data (in tabular form, say).  With this as a possible case-study, I'd be interested in how the cited data-sets could be cross-referenced with GIS data sets in formats such as OSM (OpenStreetMap/Protocol-Buffers).

Chapter 8.

In the "related work" section, the authors rush through citations a little.  I assume all of these analyses involve intrusion detection, but (apart from the references explicitly linked to the "NSL KDD" data set) it is not clear specifically what is being quantified given a summary such as "Hasan et al used a combination of support vector machines with different kernels.  Homoliak et al used artificial neural network with back propagation . Imran et al used a combination of neural networks and SVM with different kernels."  Also, the summary just before the conclusion had some language that I felt needed tightening.  For instance, "Anomalies have to be detected and thus require an unconventional machine learning approach" -- I realize the authors have previously discussed One-Class analyses, which provides some background for the idea that "anomalies require unconventional" approaches (since we assume there isn't one "anomaly" class analogous to other classifier groupings) but I still find the phrasing here confusing.  Similarly, at the end of the same paragraphs "zero-day" attacks are introduced without much exposition (I didn't find prior references to such attacks earlier).   

         
Chapter 9.

In the discussion of reference [2], the authors talk about "combin[ing] PCA (Principal Component Analysis) and YCbCr."  This should be reworded and expanded a little, because it's not entirely sensible, reading literally, to "combine" PCA with a color space/model (YCbCr).  Reading [2], it appears that paper utilized YCbCr because it is a convenient color space to work with for a preliminary stage in the analysis whose goal is to isolate a canonical "skin color" for any image which includes a face.  If I am reading [2] correctly, the canonical skin color allows their code to form a geometric model of the face (they mention parameters such as eye distance) since facial attributes (eyes, say) can be inner-segmented via a sufficient color-distance threshold from the skin color.  Assuming I read [2] correctly, the point about YCbCr is that it is convenient for the skin-color nomination while the PCA is based on geometric parameters, so it is only in an indirect sense that PCA and YCbCr are "combined."  Concerning a later reference the authors mention "facial features" whereas "features" in CV can also refer to image-locations (cf. SIFT, Scale-Invariant Feature Transform, as operationalized e.g. via corner-detectors) or to patterns quantified through (e.g.) texture analysis.  Given the diversity of senses applicable to CV "features" it might be helpful for the authors to clarify the genre of features isolated through their methodology (I realize PCA can yield features which don't have obvious visual interpretations, or at least don't intuitively register with human viewers looking at the images -- that's what makes them "principle" components -- but I still think the reader might appreciate being grounded a little bit via clarification of the nature of "features" produced via PCA.  Also, one quick point -- the python code in Figure 10 shows file paths written with two forward slashes, which, unless I'm missing something, doesn't make sense: one could have one forward slash or (for Windows, as these appears to be given the preceeding drive letter) two backslashes (the first being an escape character).  If that's the actual code the OS might ignore the second forward-slash due to path-normalization, so it may have no bearing on the algorithms, but the double-forwards could still be confusing to readers (if I'm right that they're superfluous).


Chapter 10.

Perhaps the authors should add material to better connect their research with themes related to Industry 4.0.  I think online learning is only tangential to Industry 4.0 per se, although there are various ways they might be connected, such as training content for industrial equipment, raising some links to Chapter 2.  Chapter 12 also addresses education, but in the context of Augmented Reality as a basis for instruction, which in turn has industrial applications (and in general the development of AR content introduces engineering/mathematical themes which recur in industrial technology in various contexts, such as 3D models and CAD).  Without expressing these possible connections explicitly, howevers, readers might feel that relative to the book as a whole Chapter 10 is something of a non-sequitur.


Chapter 11. 

I don't see how "Natural language processing is a new technology" by most measures of "new," although the use-cases of "voices to command and control objects" could reasonably be called new.  And maybe there's some overstatement in "Wireless technologies have had a huge positive impact on human existence, and the rate of human advancement has greatly quickened."  "Arduino must be programmed in C or C++ since it is programmable" doesn't make sense; how does "being programmable" imply "must be programmed in C or C++"?  (I suspect the point has something to do with needing machine-code compilation, i.e., a robotics system doesn't have computing resources for language-interpreters or virtual machines).  The authors mentioning cars (in the sense of automobiles) was interesting, because it raises the question of whether self-driving cars or voice-controlled cars would be easier/safer/more cost-effective; maybe the authors could explore this angle.  Another idea the authors might consider expanding is the distinction of speech-to-text and NLP stages: if robots are programmed to respond actually to commands entered in as text, is there a scenario where fine-tuning the robots' behaviour could be achieved with a collection of text commands that could be submitted to the robots randomly, or maybe by an engineer through a software interface?  That is, the system seems to have two autonomous components -- one which encodes vocal instructions as text, and the second which requires robots correctly interpreting that text as instructions.  It would be interesting to know which of these two stages present greater engineering challenges, or have show less accuracy thus far.  If robots respond well to prepackaged text instructions that might suggest the speech-to-text stage (which would seem orthogonal to robotics per se, excpet perhaps in the sense that common robot-operating commands could be assigned labels selected to minimize the risk of homonym-style ambiguities) is the greater impediment.  Some of the discussion is obscured by distracting English anomalies, like "upto" as one word, or "feeded," or not-quite-fluent-sounding phrases like "in an autonomous face recognition system, face detection is crucial."  Since that clause as written is self-evident enough to be basicallt a non-sequitur, we have to guess at the intended meaning, maybe that optimizing face-detection accuracy (above other parameters, like processing times) is crucial, but the language should be improved to make the intended meaning more obvious.


Chapter 12.

One comment on NLP: the authors mention "two parsers," on being a Tree-Adjoining Grammar and one being "Context-Free Grammar."  I found it odd to describe the two parsers in these terms in parallel, because "Context-Free Grammar" would seem to be much more general than "Tree-Adjoining Grammar."  The former is more like a principle or paradigm, to my knowledge, whereas the latter refers more explicitly to a specific parsing methodology.  Unless there is indeed a narrower genre of parsers called "Context-Free" on roughly the same scale of specificity as "Tree-Adjoining" or HPSG or Dependency Grammar or etc., this juxtaposition might be reworded.  Shortly after they mention converting between an XML output from the parser and a different XML representing, it seems, scene content.  It would be interesting to learn more how this conversion occurs -- I suspect it would require more advanced coding than mapping one DTD to another via template rules, as in XSLT.  Later on, the discussion about "availability of models in the database system" was intriguing and might deserve more exposition.  What criteria determines whether a 3D model is "available"?  Is the system just matching words to models or is there a subtler interrelationship, like one word/phrase could fit multiple models based on NL modifiers (a "folded table" would presumably demand a different 3D object than just a "table," say, or "floor lamp" versus "hanging lamp," etc.).  Can multiple words/phrases match the same model?  (Consider "hanging lamp" and "light fixture," maybe?)  Is there inference involved: if one describes a lamp in a way that only makes sense for a floor or, respectively, hanging lamp would the system detect the implicit modifier even if it's not spoken directly?  I realize that these issues are partly addressed in the "Computational Engines" section, but I still think an attentive reader will find themselves wanting some more detail about how the semantics and reasoning capabilities of the engines are supposed to work.  Maybe one way to explicate this further would be to clarify the level of NL granularity connecting the parsing results to scene representations, which could tie the discussion before or after the "Engines" section together.


Chapter 13.          

My only particular thoughts on this chapter arose with the "Future Work" section.  They mention expanding the scope of sentiment analysis to non-textual data, such as audio and video; it would seem that the techniques for such analysis in these contexts would be much different than for text, because we then have intonation and (for video) gestures/facial expressions to provide cues alongside linguistic ones.  Also, speech-to-text transcription then becomes a processing stage (with potential inaccuracies).  As such, that seems to be "future work" which could not be directly extended from the presented research, but would require subtantially different foundations, although potentially with significant overlap to the current work (perhaps vis-a-vis sentiment classification schemes, or text processing after a speech-to-text stage).  Even within text media proper, the authors point out that sarcasm ("convey[ing] negative emotions using positive words") can be challenging for sentiment analyses as presented in this chapter.  So in both cases it seems as if the authors are envisioning future work that would need to reconsider many of the basic methodologies they are currently working with, in which case it would be interesting to see how they would outline the methodological contrasts and point out where there are overlaps nonetheless.


Chapter 14.          

Some of the discussion about the nature of sign language and related topics might benefit from additional citations.  For example, the authors mention 7,097 living spoken languages in the world -- what is the source for that specific 7097 number (in practice such estimations can differ due to language/dialect distinctions and the threshold for classifying a language as not extinct).  More generally, for readers who are not well-versed in morphology and syntax for sign language the discussion of topics such as "backside and front side" as tense-markers would seem to be a good place to cite some older literature.  Technical terms or concepts introduced without supporting references tend to be read as so familiar to informed readers that tossing in references might seem pedantic; but the presence of citations on some terms at least helps less-informed readers get a map of how entrenched terms are in a given discipline.  In the case of "backside and front side" I've seen the former used pretty ubiquitously but less so "front side" (and the first of the pair is one word where the second is a phrase), so readers might want to clarify the precise meaning of this distinction; I don't think it is so obvious that a citation here would be too pro-forma.  I would make similar comments vis-a-vis the "GLOSS" systems and other places where sign-language jargon is introduced.  More thorough references are employed when discussing computational tools for sign language later on; I would recommended a similar style be employed even in the more preliminary discussion. One relatively broad question which I had (as someone not particularly familiar with sign language theory or practice) in the context of the "Regional Languages" section was to what degree sign languages tend to group in parallel to spoken ones.  The authors state, for example, that "The rich heritage of the regional languages of India has provided a massive scope for research in computational linguistics."  Assuming they envision this carrying over to sign language, to what degree do different regional languages have their own sign languages (or ones localized to that speech-community), versus standardized sign languages that might be used by people from different (spoken) language communities?  I imagine that question involves concrete details such as the nature of special schools for the hearing-impaired as well as purely linguistic considerations.  Partly this question may arise because the authors use both the terms "Indian Sign Language" and "Indian Sign Languages" (singular and plural); sometimes they writing suggests a goal of translating multiple regional languages into one shared/canonical sign language, but in general, especially for readers from countries outside South Asia these issues might need some clarification.


Chapter 15.

Some of the language in places where mathematical concepts are being discussed is awkward, which makes the mathematical principles a little harder to parse.  For example, "Since the length of the vector represents a probability that must be less than or equal to 1, which is calculated using a squashing function" -- does this mean the vectors are normalized?  Or that the probability "is calculated using a squashing function"?  Or that the vectors are normalized *because* the probability is calculated using a squashing function?  Or "To make prediction, a dot product is used. The hierarchy is easily accessible by observing the opening and understanding the components associated with high accuracy."  In what sense are components "associated with high accuracy"?  How is accuracy available as a classifying parameter during the course of an image-processing pipeline where presumably results can be judged for accuracy only after completion?  I'm probably getting misled by reading superficially, but clearer language (and maybe more detailed exposition) would make it easier to grasp the described algorithms more granularly.  Some other language anomalies would/will presumably be identified by editors, e.g. "Devanagari is one of the viral scripts in India"; maybe this is a familiar usage I'm not privy to, but I can't tell if they mean something like "going viral" (which I don't think is a good way to signify something like "widely used") or intended to write "vital scripts," or something else?  The actual research seems well-done, so maybe revisions of the chapter should focus on tightening the language.  Actually, given that (at least in current form) the presentation of the authors' own work is sounder than the preliminary material, I wonder if the "Experiment" section could be expanded a little; for instance, the authors might consider discussing the 16 vector dimensions in more detail.  What specific features are encoded?


Chapter 16.

It seems to me that "highly relevant" is a goal, rather than something stipulated by definition or hypothesis, so the wording where the phrase "highly relevant" is used sounds a little awkward.  The term is used in a manner analogous to criteria such as "personalized" or "encrypted," which simply name design features or details of the system being described -- saying a web service provides "personalized information" or "encrypted information" would be read as a straightforward description of the system's properties.  However, "highly relevant" is a value judgment and an implementation goal; one cannot simply "design" relevance as a protocol or implementation detail.  Notice that saying "personalized recommendations" only refers to the fact that the engine generating such recommendations works on a per-user basis; it aserts a design facet, not an evaluation of how well the implementation succeeds.  A system could be called "personalized" even if it is not very accurate (i.e., users do not respond to recommendations according to patterns which suggests that the personalization is working well).  But "highly relevant" is not neutral in the same way -- English-language convention would imply that content should be described this way only if in fact the system is highly accurate.  In short, the language would be clearer or sound more fluent if "highly relevant" were asserted as a goal against which systems are to be evaluated, not as an a priori quality which systems can acquire by stipulation.  

With that stylistic point noted, I'd also suggest that some of the preparatory material leading to the authors' "research hypothesis" makes fairly obvious claims, and one has to read closely to see the specific details the authors are trying to foreground.  For example, it's almost self-evident that "Users personal information is used in order to produce personalized content"; I think the point of this sentence is to assert that such a goal is correlated with finding "users implicit requirement," i.e., the recommendation algorithms are designed to isolate and guess at a factor that can be described as "users' requirements" (intention to buy something, get a price, find a store which may have products they intend to buy, and so forth).  It's not immediately obvious that "producing personalized content" entails constructing such a user-intention profile, so this is a good point to make, but in general the substantive content in this chapter sometimes gets hidden by awkward language which reads as plausible but rather uninformative.  

I'd make similar comments about "Users with higher privacy concerns need more control over personalization to progress trust in the ecommerce websites" -- which, aside from stylistic issues, arguably needs further demonstration (I realize they cite one study, but this is a complex issue.  Do we really have evidence that websites which offer users a more explicit or more complex set of options for customizing their personalization features tend to be more trusted as a result?  That makes intuitive sense, but I have also seen discussions implying that users tend to ignore overly detailed or tedious personalization features (how often do we select anything but "accept all cookies"?) and that the most trustworthy sites address privacy concerns in an easy-to-use way without users needing to exert much effort. 

The authors present a good research methodology for investigating these kinds of issues, and this seems like the kind of infrastructure which would be proper for a large-scale analysis.  I think it is hard to make generalizations from a small samle size (less that 500 people), considering the sheer scale of online purchases (against which the issue of data quantity becomes especially pronounced).  The authors' hypotheses are reasonable but also, I find, rather vague as stated: it's not surprising that "Users' purchase intention is highly associated with users' Trust," for example.  In the spirit that empirical analysis should test for outcomes that are hard to predict ahead of time, I think the more interesting point would be to refine the hypotheses into more specific questions.  For example, are users more likely to believe that a website is using personal data responsibly if they find the recommendations helpful?  Or, to the degree that they tend to be contravariant, do users prefer better recommendations requiring curating more personal data, or less acquisition of personal data even if recommendations become less accurate?  And how do users' statistical breakdown on these questions correlate with age, income, gender, etc.?
      


   
Chapter 17.

This chapter is written in a style that seems addressed first and foremost to readers who are well-versed in cyber-physical systems and wireless networking, with succinct definitions that seem more to single out specific topics than to present concepts for readers who had not previously encountered them.  That's fine; in fact, most technical writing could be described in such terms.  However, against that background when the authors *do* make an effort effort to write in a more expository style, it is worth examining the relevant text to see if some of the presentation could be clarified.  For example, they take pains to outline blockchain technology more thoroughly than conventional wireless networks, which makes sense insofar as blockchain (while well-established in contexts such as cybercurrency) is a less canonical subject vis-a-vis the Internet of Things.  But if the goal of section 17.5 is to break down the main features of blockchain for a non-expert audience, the authors might consider a more expository style than they use elsewhere in the chapter.  For instance, in "The consensus process is carried out independently using data status rules, contributing to the system's full independence" it would be helpful to explain in what sense consensus is a "process" (sure, arriving at consensus is a process, so that yields a vague intuition of "consensus process" as a technical construct, but it wold help to explicate more full what this means in practice).  Moreover, a term like "data status rules" should be defined, and the authors might explain how these points all contribute to "full independence."  

Or, in what sense do private and public keys "semi-anonymously" record information -- how is "semi-anonymous" different from "fully" anonymous?  And what would be "something like the ledger"?  If I understand the authors correctly, they are propose a less data-instensive version of blockchain which reduces the size of the data that nodes need to share (and perhaps also reduces the computational cost of proof-of-work) -- if that's accurate then the expression "something like the ledger" makes some sense, but I don't think the idea is obvious as written.  Likewise, while any reader with even a passing familiarity with blockchain would grok how "De-centralization implies ... no central authority" it is less trivial to define how such decentralization is "due to a competition mechanism."  I think the basic principle is that when two nodes have incompatible data algorithms are employed to weight one over the other, which can be conceptualized as a "contest" where the "winning" node's data is accepted into the blockchain and the loser's discarded.  But it would help to have these ideas explained in the article itself, assuming the goal of this section is to introduce blockchain at a more introductory level than the prior discussion o wireless networking issues.  Similarly, proof-of-work and proof-of-stake are complex formulations that readers might benefit from seeing outlined more expansively, even if they are familiar with the terms themselves.  It would also be useful to explain the notion of "smart contracts" within a blockchain.  Indeed, I think the authors propose innovative examples of smart contracts and it would help readers appreciate the originality of their work if given some background in the traditional use-cases and formats for smart contracts.

I'll also make a more general thematic content: blockchain software, to my knowledge, tends to be complex and memory-intensive, so it is hard to build and experiment with blockchain libraries on a regular computer.  This would seem to complicate efforts to explore, in academic or research settings, how blockchain might be applied to new domains.  To make an analogy with Section 5: GIS tasks such as map-rendering also typically rely on very large geospatial databases and require special servers, but there are a handful of GIS libraries that can be scaled down to work with small geographic areas for testing and prototyping GIS extensions.  I'm not sure if similar R&D libraries exist in the context of blockchain proper.  Ideally, the algorithms which the authors propose would be modeled by published code that can work on small-sized blockchains (or blockchain-like data structures) so that users can study the authors' methods interactively (analogous to how several other chapters have employed Kaggle data sets).  It would be interesting to know if the authors have thoughts on how blockchain technology could be "downscaled" for such development/pedagogical purposes.

 
Chapter 18.

While this chapter seems technically well-constructed, I have some thematical questions.  I raise these mostly to indicate the kind of reaction that some readers might have, which perhaps could be relevant feedback for the authors if they make revisions.  Here are some points: is it correct that the algorithm the authors present, in itself, would apply only to black-and-white images, and how could it be generalized to grayscale and/or full-color?  And is encryption via pixel-manipulation the best strategy for encoding "hidden" data within images?  Even if the resulting modification to the base image is indetectable, people might be reluctant to use an image-format which distorts their pictures in any way.  

I think it would be interesting to juxtapose the authors' specific techniques with similar computations that could be embedded in images with varying color depths and without modifying "visual" pixels at all.  There are several ways this might be done.  One idea is to employ image formats with non-visual channels (or channels with bit-depth allowing for non-visual content).  If RGB32 images are aligned on conventional 32-bit boundaries, the RGB color itself uses only 3 bytes.  The familiar RGBA model employs the 4th byte for transparency/opacity (the "alpha" channel), but many images don't employ an alpha channel at all, and even those that do probably don't have a full spectrum of alpha values covering a full 256 different values.  If an image employs no more than 128 distinct alpha quantities, then these could be stored in a lookup table (the values themselves could be fully 1-byte depth; alternatively one could round alphas to the nearest even integer, say, so they need only 7 bits with an implicit left-shift).  In any case one but in the alpha channel would then be a "free" bit whose status has no visual effect, so runs of these bits could be used to encode arbitrary data.  Another possibility is to embed encrypted information in non-visual content entirely, which many image formats support, such as PNG tags.  A third option is to employ color spaces such as HSV, where some bit-patterns can be set aside as non-meaningful color codes.  For instance, the conventional HSV "black" is assigned hue zero, so any other hue with zero saturation and value could be treated as a "non-color" (I think most image-displays treat all these values as generic black, but that's a fallback that could be altered without changing the HSV format visually or computationally).  Suppose an image is interspersed with numerous "non-color" pixels: these could be dropped from the image matrix proper and their values (as well as their distribution, perhaps) employed to encode encrypted content.

I realize there may be logistical problems with these suggestions.  For example, the "non-color-pixel" method might involve noticeable delays in displaying images once they're loaded.  Also, if encrypted codes are used to track image provenance, for example, it should be difficult to create a visually identical copy of the image without such encrypted data and then share it in lieu of the original.  However, I am not clear on the degree to which similar issues would not affect the specific techniques the authors introduce.  Would it be possible to recover the original image from which an image with encrupted data was desrived, and if so, are there ways to guard against software reconstructing this image and avoiding whatever limitations motivate the encryption in the first place?  In any case, though, it would be interesting to see how the authors might differentiate their encoding schemes from specific pixel-manipulation protocols, so that similar encryption strategies could also be used in contexts where pixels are modified in alternative ways (via different channels or bit-patterns) that affect only non-visual data.      


Chapter 19.

Could the authors expand a little on the choice of using image-reconstruction as a test-bed for FL vulnerabilities when the primary primary security concerns seem to involve personal data, rather than images?  I'm not raising any question about the technical value of using images in this way, just that it's something readers might be interested in.  Is there some specific reason why images in particular are selected as the kind of data-source used for this analysis?  E.g., because each image is a single file which nevertheless has many data points, or that the match between reconstructed and originally images can be visually understood, or because image data is easy to parallelize, or etc.?  

The authors might also want to place the general question of privacy/security concerns in ML in a larger context.  My reading is that the overall motivation for this paper is that decentralizing data-acquisition is, at least in theory, a possible technique for avoiding the kind of centralized data curation which can raise privacy/security concerns.  The authors then show how using decentralized Federated Learning techniques cannot offer a guarantee against malicious acquisition of sensitive data.  That's certainly a valuable analysis, but it deserved to be set in the context of security concerns overall.  For example, some people may resist the idea of their personal info being shared by any means, even if it is processed in such a way that their data is never "centralized" or that preserves anonymity -- people might believe that data-collection is a violation of privacy even if no person ever sees the data except in an aggregated form that pools individuals' data into averaged aggregates, or they may feel (not without warrant) that aggressive data collection can adversely impact the usability of software or websites.  In short, the authors might think about noting what additional techniques or policies could be put in place to safeguard privacy even if FL could be applied in ways that avoid the vulnerabilities they have identified.  


